You're
in this video I'm going to demonstrate how to download and import a genius free appliance.
I'm using James 3 on a Mac but the principle is the same if you're using a Windows PC.
So good to the genius free web site and Plec marketplace.
And then appliances and find the appliance that you want to download.
In this example I'm going to download the Cisco Ioway the lead to appliance so click on the appliance
and then click download template the appliances then download it to your local machine.
You'll typically need to provide your own operating system for the genus 3 appliance that you are using.
The appliance doesn't contain the operating system.
It's simply a way to quickly get a device working ingenius 3 using the recommended parameters or recommended
settings.
So in this example I've already downloaded the appliance operating system from Cisco viral and I've
got it stored in my downloads directory.
I've also got to the Janissary appliance downloaded to my downloads directory.
So to import the appliance ingenius three he'd go to file import appliance navigate to the directory
with the appliances stored in this case the appliance was downloaded to my downloads directory.
So I'm going to select the appliance and click open the ad appliance window displays and a summary of
the appliances shown here.
Click next.
Now it's recommended that the appliance run on the Jinnah's 3 VM and that's what we are going to do.
So I'm going to select that option and click next.
We told that to the genius three server requirements are OK so we can continue with the installation.
So click next.
Now genius 3 will search for the operating system in the download directory and the gene has three images
directory.
In this case because the image is in the Downloads directory genus 3 has picked that up and has found
the image.
Now if you don't have the image click on the download button.
So that you've taken to the vendor's website to download the image for viral images you could download
to the image directly from the viral Web site or use the link provided in Genesis 3 so in this case
the image found is the image which is in the Downloads directory once again.
So I'm going to click next genius.
He asks Do we want to install this image.
And the answer is yes.
We told the settings used by the appliance and this is what makes it a lot easier using the appliances
from the genius free Web site.
You don't have to know the correct settings.
It's done for you so click next.
We then told that to the appliance will be available in the multi-layers switch category.
We are told that there is no default password.
We enable password.
There's also no default configuration.
So click Finish.
Jean history tells us that the appliances installed septic OK we can go to switches and here's the new
appliance that we just added notice we told that the image is not available on the genus 3 VM.
Do we want to upload it.
And the answer is yes.
What happened is that the image was automatically uploaded from the Janissary client or Kuei running
on my Mac to the genus 3 VM running with in a VM way.
I can add another device to the topology of zoom in to make it easier to see what's going on.
We could connect a link as an example between the two switches
move the topology around as desired and let's click start to boot the images up and then let's open
up a console to each device.
So his switch one and he has switched to we're told that Iowas V is booting those images are running
once again within the genus 3 V.M. we can see the C.P. of the genus three V.M. has climbed quite a bit
often when you first boot up the C-p use at 100 percent we see some output on the screen showing us
that the Cisco virtual us relate to software interfaces are coming up on both switches and after a while
we can log in so show version his the command Cisco Iowas software the iOS advanced enterprise services
show IP interface brief.
We can see some interfaces on the switch conforte.
Let's give the switch a name to a host switch one on the switch host switch to Visalia two switches.
Let's give them an IP address on and as VOA.
So 10 1 1 1 slushed 24 no shut the SBI
on switch to interface villaine 1 IP address 10 1 1 2 No shutout ping 10 1 1 1.
I was a bit quick there but notice the pings started succeeding.
Do the ping again.
Switch who is able to pings which one.
And by the same token which one can ping switch to.
These are very powerful images.
Let's do last quick demonstration.
I'll try to loop back on switch one try to loop back and switch to and then let's see Nabl Eli GOP and
all enable you know GOP on all interfaces to do the same here.
Enable the GOP on all interfaces.
You don't have to do this come on because it's a default on a lot of the modern Cisco Iris's but to
disable or to summarization show IP Jappy neighbor we have a neighbor relationship with switch to show
IP ront we can see that we've learnt a route through the P paying quadruple T.
So one can ping the Lubeck of such to such to can ping the lookback of such one.
So that was a quick demonstration of how to download an appliance from the Jinnah's 3 marketplace.
They are many appliances available in this marketplace and I showed you an example of how to import
a Cisco Iowas V A lead to appliance and get it working in Jeana's 3 The recommendation is to use the
genus 3.
VM don't use an appliance on a local install of genius 3 on a Windows PC or a Mac.
You.